[EDU-3692] feat: add let's encrypt txt record (#635)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/secure-journey/intelligent-dns-advanced-configurations/add-lets-encrypt-txt-record.mdx

---
title: How to add a TXT record to configure Let's Encrypt certificate

> description: After you create a Let’s Encrypt certificate in a platform other than Azion, but want to use it with a zone created in Intelligent DNS, you must also create TXT record to add the information.

Reviewer: Me parece que a descrição está deslocada do título.

Que tal:
`When creating a Let's Encrypt certificate externally for a hostname that is hosted in Intelligent DNS you must be able to add the TXT record required for the DNS challenge. Here you'll find how to do it.`

> description: After you create a Let’s Encrypt certificate in a platform other than Azion, but want to use it with a zone created in Intelligent DNS, you must also create TXT record to add the information.

Author: ```suggestion
description: When creating a Let's Encrypt certificate externally, such as using Let's Encrypt official tool Certbot, for a hostname that is hosted in Intelligent DNS, you must add the TXT record required for the DNS challenge.
```

meta_tags: secure, intelligent dns, record, certificate, domain, let's encrypt
namespace: docs_guides_secure_intelligent_dns_lets_encrypt_record
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/secure/lets-encrypt-record/
menu_namespace: secureMenu
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

:::caution[warning]

> This guide covers a scenario in which you have a Let's Encrypt™ certificate created in a platform *outside* Azion and want to associate it with an Intelligent DNS zone. If you've created a Let's Encrypt certificate directly on Azion, the process is automatic and you don't need to create a TXT record. Find out more in the [Let's Encrypt guide](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-generate-a-lets-encrypt-certificate/).

Reviewer: Sugiro simplificar aqui:

de:  `This guide covers a scenario in which you have a Let's Encrypt™ certificate created in a platform *outside* Azion and want to associate it with an Intelligent DNS zone. If you've created a Let's Encrypt certificate directly on Azion, the process is automatic and you don't need to create a TXT record. Find out more in the [Let's Encrypt guide](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-generate-a-lets-encrypt-certificate/).`

para:  (mudar o alerta de `:::caution[warning]` para nível INFO... imagino que seja `:::important[information]`)

`If you've created a Let's Encrypt certificate directly on Azion, the TXT record is automatically handled. Find out more in the [Let's Encrypt guide](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-generate-a-lets-encrypt-certificate/).`

MOTIVO: Eu posso querer usar o certificado que estou gerando FORA DA AZION. O fato de precisar criar a entrada TXT não me obriga a, depois disso, importar o certificado resultante no RTM.
Quanto ao caso de uso, a descrição (linha 3) já especifica isso.

Ex.: Estou gerando um certificado para uma aplicação interna que não quero configurar AINDA na Azion.

Author: @arturdj posso mudar de warning para `note`, que é menos "chamativo".

a linha 3 não aparece para o usuário quando ele está na página. as descriptions aparecem quando o link é compartilhado ou via pesquisa google e outros, então o caso de uso está aparecendo pela primeira vez.
sobre a obrigação, no texto fala "`want` to associate it", então já não esclareceria?

Reviewer: @hannah-sk : sobre mudar para NOTE, OK.
Sobre a linha 3 ser description, OK.
Sobre o texto que fala do `want` [linha 13] , eu entendo que poderia ser:

...
This guide covers a scenario in which you want to configure the DNS TXT record required for a Let's Encrypt™ certificate through DNS-01 Challenge validation.
If you've chosen Azion's Domain feature to create a Let's Encrypt certificate directly from Real-Time Manager for a zone that is fully configured in Intelligent DNS, the entire process is automated, including the handling of the TXT record. Find out more in the [Let's Encrypt guide](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-generate-a-lets-encrypt-certificate/).
...

> :::caution[warning]
> This guide covers a scenario in which you have a Let's Encrypt™ certificate created in a platform *outside* Azion and want to associate it with an Intelligent DNS zone. If you've created a Let's Encrypt certificate directly on Azion, the process is automatic and you don't need to create a TXT record. Find out more in the [Let's Encrypt guide](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-generate-a-lets-encrypt-certificate/).

Author: ```suggestion
:::note
This guide covers a scenario in which you want to configure the DNS TXT record required for a Let's Encrypt™ certificate through DNS-01 Challenge validation.

If you've chosen Azion's **Domain** feature to create a Let's Encrypt certificate directly from Real-Time Manager for a zone that is fully configured in Intelligent DNS, the entire process is automated, including the handling of the TXT record. Find out more in the [Let's Encrypt guide](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-generate-a-lets-encrypt-certificate/).
```

:::

> After you create a Let’s Encrypt certificate in a platform other than Azion, but want to use it with a [zone created in Intelligent DNS](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/), you must also create **TXT record** in Intelligent DNS to add the information given by the Let’s Encrypt provider.

Author: ```suggestion
After you create a Let’s Encrypt certificate in a platform other than Azion, but want to use it with a [zone created in Intelligent DNS](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/), you must also create **TXT record** in Intelligent DNS to add the information given by the Let’s Encrypt provider. This helps verify the domain's DNS is owned by those who requested the certificate.
```

> After you create a Let’s Encrypt certificate in a platform other than Azion, but want to use it with a [zone created in Intelligent DNS](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/), you must also create **TXT record** in Intelligent DNS to add the information given by the Let’s Encrypt provider. This helps verify the domain's DNS is owned by those who requested the certificate.

Reviewer: Sugiro mudar toda linha 16 para:

While requesting the Let's Encrypt certificate over [DNS challenge](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#dns-01-challenge) method, you'll have to add a specific TXT record to your DNS zone to ensure the certificate validation. Assuming that you're hosted it on [Intelligent DNS](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/), follow the instructions below:

Reviewer: MOTIVO: "After you create" pressupõe que o certificado já foi criado, quando na verdade, essa etapa do TXT ocorre durante o processo de solicitação dele.

---

## Via RTM

1. Follow the general steps described in the [How to add records](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/add-records/) guide.

> 2. In **Name**, provide the new record’s name in a string (text) format. Limited to 100 characters. Example: `lets-encrypt-challenge`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In **Name**, provide the new record’s name in a string (text) format. Limited to **100 characters**. Example: `lets-encrypt-challenge`.
```

menu_namespace: secureMenu
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

:::note
This guide covers a scenario in which you want to configure the DNS TXT record required for a Let's Encrypt™ certificate through DNS-01 Challenge validation.

If you've chosen Azion's **Domain** feature to create a Let's Encrypt certificate directly from Real-Time Manager for a zone that is fully configured in Intelligent DNS, the entire process is automated, including the handling of the TXT record. Find out more in the [Let's Encrypt guide](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-generate-a-lets-encrypt-certificate/).
:::

While creating the Let’s Encrypt certificate over [DNS challenge](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#dns-01-challenge) method, you have to add a specific TXT record to your DNS zone to ensure the certificate validation. If your [zone](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/) is hosted in Intelligent DNS, follow the steps described next.

---

## Via RTM

1. Follow the general steps described in the [How to add records](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/add-records/) guide.

> 2. In **Name**, provide the new record’s name in a string (text) format. Limited to *100 characters*. Example: `lets-encrypt-challenge`.

Author: ```suggestion
2. In **Name**, provide the new record’s name required by the Let's Encrypt certification request, such as the Certbot tool, in a string format. Limited to *100 characters*. Example: `_acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN>`.
```

3. In the **Type** dropdown menu, select **TXT**.

> 4. In **Value**, add a text with the ACME challenge provided by the Let's Encrypt provider and the value. For example: `Deploy a DNS TXT record under the name _acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN> with the following value: ekgH9kW242Vbt99P27agtr07I09iLsiZZx`.

Author: ```suggestion
4. In **Value**, input the value for the ACME challenge provided by the Let's Encrypt provider. Example: `ekgH9kW242Vbt99P27agtr07I09iLsiZZx`.
```

5. In **TTL (seconds)**, choose the time, in seconds, a response can be cached for on a resolver server. Maximum value: `2147483647`.
6. Click the **Save** button.

---

## Via API

1. Run the following `GET` request in your terminal, replacing `[TOKEN VALUE]` with your [personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/) to retrieve your `<hosted_zone_id>`:

```bash
curl --location 'https://api.azionapi.net/intelligent_dns' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]' \
--header 'Accept: application/json; version=3'
```

2. You'll receive a response with all your existing zones. Copy the value of the `<id>` that you want to use.
3. Run the following `POST` request, replacing `[TOKEN VALUE]` with your [personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/) and the `<hosted_zone_id>` value you copied:

```bash
curl --location 'https://api.azionapi.net/intelligent_dns/<hosted_zone_id>/records' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]' \
--header 'Accept: application/json; version=3' \
--data-raw '{
    "record_type": "TXT",

>     "entry": "lets-encrypt-challenge",

Reviewer: Precisa ser o nome provido pelo Lets Encrypt: Ex.: `_acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN>`

>     "entry": "lets-encrypt-challenge",

Author: ```suggestion
    "entry": "_acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN>",
```

    "answers_list": [

>         "Deploy a DNS TXT record under the name _acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN> with the following value: ekgH9kW242Vbt99P27agtr07I09iLsiZZx"

Reviewer: PRecisa ser o valor EXATO provido pelo Lets Encrypt: Ex.: `ekgH9kW242Vbt99P27agtr07I09iLsiZZx`

Reviewer: Exemplo de chamada real (para referência) - NÃO COLOCAR NA DOC.

![image](https://github.com/aziontech/docs/assets/12763533/c2e0ffd6-1243-43cc-956c-a65842851be8)

>         "Deploy a DNS TXT record under the name _acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN> with the following value: ekgH9kW242Vbt99P27agtr07I09iLsiZZx"

Author: ```suggestion
        "ekgH9kW242Vbt99P27agtr07I09iLsiZZx"
```

    ],
    "ttl": 20
}'
```

4. You'll receive a response similar to this:

```json

> {

Reviewer: Exemplo de resposta REAL:
![image](https://github.com/aziontech/docs/assets/12763533/98da95d8-7e65-4cad-b8a0-7f8445ef7fe4)

  "results": {
    "answers_list": [

>       "Deploy a DNS TXT record under the name _acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN> with the following value: ekgH9kW242Vbt99P27agtr07I09iLsiZZx"

Reviewer: Tem que corresponder à chamada acima da API - corrigir valores de `anwser_list` e `entry`. É só se basear na imagem que passei.

    ],
    "zone_id": 1234,
    "record_type": "TXT",
    "ttl": 20,
    "policy": "simple",

>     "entry": "lets-encrypt-challenge",

Reviewer: vide comentário da linha 67

>     "entry": "lets-encrypt-challenge",

Author: ```suggestion
    "entry": "_acme-challenge.<YOUR_DOMAIN>",
```
